You know how annoying it is when you travel and your plug doesn't fit the outlet?
That's what integrating different AI services usually feels like.
You build one agent in Python and another one in Node.
They have different API schemas, different off mechanisms, you end up spending more time
writing glucose than actual AI logic.
It's some mess.
So we need a universal adapter, a standard way for any AI agent to say, here's who I am,
and here's how you talk to me.
That's the agent to agent protocol, ATA for short.
It's not magic, it's just a standard.
Every ATA agent serves a special ID card at well-known slash agent.json.
It's kind of like our agent's dating profile.
In Node, we don't have to write this manually.
We just wrap our ADK agent in a standard ATA server.
They play really nicely together.
Let's run it locally and actually look at that file.
It's not just the name, it defines the contract.
But check this out.
It defines the input schema, which is what arguments it takes, and the output schema,
what it promises to return.
This is very similar to an open API specification, swagger, but specifically designed
for agentic capabilities.
But why is this a big deal?
Is because we're decoupling our future orchestrator won't need to import the researchers
Python code.
It just needs the URL.
Think about it.
You could have a team where the researcher is a super fast cheap model, and the content
builder is a massive, expensive reasoning model.
They don't care.
They just speak ATA.
You could even rewrite the researcher in Go tomorrow, keep the same ATA interface, and
the rest of your system wouldn't even blink.
That's true, microservice architecture, but for AI.
Now that they have a common language, we need a manager to tell them what to do.
We'll build the orchestrator agent.
Think of our orchestrator agent as a project manager holding a master clipboard.
This clipboard is considered the state in our case.
It has everything that has happened so far.
Our workers, the researcher, and the judge, they don't have clipboards.
They just show up, do exactly what the project manager tells them to do based on the current
page of the clipboard, and then they leave.
This is crucial because if a worker bought crashes and restart, it's fine.
It didn't lose anything important because it wasn't holding anything important.
The project manager still has the master clipboard keeping track every step of the way.
ADK gives us the tools to manage this clipboard easily.
Under patterns like sequential, which is do step A, then B, and loop, keep doing A until
it's good enough, allows us to organize the work.
So before you code, define your clipboard.
What exactly needs to be written down for us is research findings and the judge feedback.
Okay, so to recap, we learned that the orchestrator must hold the state because our
workers are forgetful.
We choose ADK patterns to organize their work, and we define exactly what data needs to
be safe.
We have the Blueprints, let's lay the foundation next.
In the next video, we'll build the orchestrator agent.
Bye for now.